# OnNER: An Ontology for Semantic Representation of Named Entities in Scholarly Publications
The __Ontology for Named Entity Representation (OnNER)__ models named entities  as they appear in scientific publications and what is necessary to locate them therein. It is intended to be used to capture each publication and all its named entities -- as extracted by various NER tools -- as an RDF document. These documents can be easily queried together for their named entities.
**Abstract**
A significant portion of scientific knowledge resides within scholarly publications, both in print and digital formats. Recent advancements in natural language processing and information extraction techniques have enhanced the accessibility of this knowledge for further automated querying and processing. Structured and semantically-aware representations, such as ontologies, play a crucial role in simplifying and integrating access to this vast pool of knowledge. While several ontologies have been developed to capture the structure and discourse of scientific publications, there is a notable scarcity of ontologies for succinctly representing named entities that are present in scholarly documents.
This paper introduces the Ontology for Named Entity Representation (OnNER) to address this gap. OnNER is designed to represent named entities – the terms identified and labeled using named entity recognition (NER) methods – from scholarly publications. The ontology provides a structured semantic representation of the named entities, how they are labeled, and where they occur. We discuss the overall design of OnNER, its integration with other ontologies, and demonstrate how the ontology facilitates advanced querying of named entities’ presence and collocation within and across publications.

**Original Paper:** (https://ebooks.iospress.nl/doi/10.3233/FAIA241291)

**OnNER Documentation:** (https://theskailab.github.io/OnNER/onner-full.html)
